README.md, before:

#  ReadMe for the Code Challenge

        Written Sep 09, 2021 by Sungwook Kim.





## I typed all the followings in chronological order, not considering the integrity of ReadMe file.


## The `DEMO` movie file was included: 
  the file name: `shortly demo by sungwook.mov`
  I forgot to demonstrate when the user enters the same url again.
  for example, the user entered "sungw.net"  and then the app got a short code for it.
  when the user enters again "sungw.net"  and then it won't access the SHRTCODE end point but
    give off an error message on the overlay of text field "It is a duplicate".


## My Environment Xcode 13 beta 5 (Not Xcode 12): SwiftUI3 capable.
I'm using **Swift3**, the latest one which is included only in **Xcode 13 Beta 5**.
in order to maximize the ability I have been using Xcode 13 beta 5 (SwiftUI3)
However, for the compatibility I had to lower the version to Xcode 12 (SwiftUI2) where many feature are deprecated already.

The problem is that On Xcode 12 Info.plist is continually giving me a strange error that is not acutally error:
  It compiles well and test well, but gives a false error.
However, On Xcode 13, I have no such issue: I have no choice because I should stick to Xcode 12 to make my project accessible by the company.

## Some functions and features will be different from the stable version Xcode 12 as the followings:
  - all the asynchronous async, await feature of SwiftUI3 is not available (I'll try not to use this, even if I knew these things well.)
  - popular functions like `func overlay<Overlay>(_ overlay: Overlay, alignment: Alignment = .center) -> some View where Overlay : View` is replaced by 
     func overlay<V>(alignment: Alignment = .center, content: () -> V) -> some View where V : View in SwiftUI3.0 (Xcode13 beta)
  - I am tempted or accustomed to use asynchronous task(priority:_:) modifier than on the synchronous onAppear(perform:), but I try not to: for the compatibility to **Xcode 12** 
    which is limited to **Swift2.0**.

Therefore, sometimes unknowingly, I may use the **SwiftUI3** functions and modifiers: if this happens, the project even in the format of Xcode 12 won't be compiled but **Xcode 13 beta 5**. However, I will try to uae the deprecated function if possible.  If that happens unknowingly, please download **Xcode 13 beta 5** from developer.apple.com and then compile the project, instead.

Because I'm downgrade the project to Xcode12 project format, there are some bugs involved in Info.plist but it is a glitch. It will compile and run without problem. Xcode 12 compiler may keep giving you an error message for the missing Info.plist but it is an expected bug in Xcode 12.
If you created the project on Xcode 13, it won't happen.  However, in order to maintain compatibility with Xcode 12, I intentionally created the project in Xcode 12 format.  (Xcode 13, Info.plist disappear and are consolidated to project settings.) 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## `Additional Features` that were NOT included in the code challenge and that were added:
## or Over-Engineered Parts:

  - url validation: func validateUrl() of String extension does this.
  
      - The Error Handling version 1 (tag: The_Error_Handling_Version_1) when I didn't notice the picture `1.2_main_screen_empty_missing_link.png`.
      Because it wasn't a part of the code challenge, I'll add it with Alert view when it could not validate. 
      And please note that **[Alert](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/alert)** is deprecated again in **SwiftUI3 (Xcode13)**, being replaced by the modifier  **alert(_:isPresented:presenting:actions:message:)**.
      As I had misunderstood the way of presenting the error message, I interpreted wrongly it to be an Alert view.
      (version 1 can be viewable when you roll back through git history by checking out.)
      
      - The Error Handling version 2 (tag: The_Error_Handling_Version_2__ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier )
      According to the picture '1.2_main_screen_empty_missing_link.png', I converted the corresponding view of the Lower Cell of ContentView by `ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier`.
      
      - `InputFieldError_Enum`, `func isValidString()` of `ContentView`, and  `ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier` deals with error handling of the input text on the text field:
        The reason I added feature is saving from unnecessary calling to the endpoint of SHRTCODE.
        
        For example, let say the user enter the input text "my-website/com" or "my-website_com" which are not valid url.
        instead of waiting for the result, this error handling immediately returns an error "Please enter a correct URL" on the text field without delay.
        This will surely  improve the user experience that I had to add this feature, even if there is no specification about this in the code challenge.
        
      - `ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier`: This is designed for displaying the error message over the text field. ( the input text field )
         and its feature is also combined with the source of truth and animation.   
  
      ### `InputFieldError_Enum` related to the above:
        1. case `.emptyString`: when the user hit the `shorten it button` without giving the text field any text. -> returns "Please add a link here" message on the overlay of text field
        2. case `invalidUrl`: when the user entered an invalid string. -> returns "Please enter a correct URL" message on the overlay of text field
        3. case `.duplicated`: when the user entered the same string again -> returns "It is a duplicate" message on the overlay of text field 

  
  - Orientation is fixed at Portrate mode.
  
  - I tried to add dark mode to the app but based on the specifications, there is no room to do that: therefore, I cancelled the previous plan.
      
  - `TheGlobalUIParameter.is_debugging_mode` controls whether it is in debugging mode or not: currently it is limited to FontTestView.
    because the project is relatively simple.
  
  - Avoided the duplicates in the text field input:
    Entering the same `url-string` will be discarded, not being added as a row but showing its error message on the TextEdit Field again as the same way as others. 
  
  - Added 'Fetching Data' animation while waiting for getting the short code from SHRTCODE.
    it takes 18 seconds from S. Korea to SHRTCODE germany that I found from os logging performance testing.
    see the file `OS.log Test - URLSession 18 seconds.png` and `HTTP Traffic not enabled for iPhoneSE2.png`
    I could not test HTTP traffic through Instruments because my iOS devices are limited: iPhoneSE2, not iPhone12 or 11.
    
    Initially, I had been mulling over if I make multiple URLSessions to speed up the connections to the SHRTCODE endpoint. (See the Further Improvements conceived below for more.)
  
  - And when the shortcode is copied to clipboard, there is `a short 1_000ms animation` (`yellow color on the black button`) that notify the user to confirm that it is being processed as well.  `message_animation_duration of TheGlobalUIParameter`
      Because sometimes, the user may want to copy the short code again from the black button which was already copied.
      This is why I thought that such an animation (yellow text popping up) is necessary. 
  
  
  - `hasNotch` property, the view modifier `AdaptivePaddingOverAllDevices`, the view `SpacerOnlyForOnlyDevicesWithoutANotch_Previews`:
    - `hasNotch` property, the view modifier `AdaptivePaddingOverAllDevices`, and `SpacerOnlyForOnlyDevicesWithoutANotch_Previews` were
      introduced to adapt the UI interfaces and elements over various iOS devices, either having a notch or without a notch.
      
      What I found from testings was as the followings:
        - iOS devices that have a notch have safeAreaInsets.bottom != 0,
        -  but iOS devices without a notch have safeAreaInsets.bottom == 0,
        On top of this, `safeAreaInsets.top behavior` or `status bar behavior` is different for iOS devices without a notch from
        those devices with a notch
        Therefore, the behavior of each UI element and animation to it will be affected accordingly.
        
        I used the full screen for the specifications of this code challenge but keyboard safe area is not controllable on SwiftUI2.0 that
        you should see an animation occurring every time the user strokes the virtual keyboard of the iOS device. However, 
        from SwiftUI3.0 this handling of the safe area was improved. Therefore, I couldn't put the feature into the project limited to SwiftUI2.0. 
        
      And from SwiftUI3.0 safeAreaInsets are more featured that we can handle this matter better.
      But as I noticed before, I sticked to SwiftUI 2.0 (Xcode 12 project setting) to make the project compatible to the current version of Xcode 
      and also viewable by the recruiter.     
      
  - Some features are designed only for testings - stability, performance, visibility like `isTesting_CustomFont`
  
  - All control parameters are consolidated in `struct TheGlobalUIParameter`.
     
  - os framework was imported and tested in logging for tracking the performance in remote web access and the corresponding sources of truth.
  
  - many debugging features like `sneakPeak_JSONObject()`
  
  - App Icon was added.
  
  - **The new feature of multiple input field attempts** while waiting for getting previous short-code from the remote endpoint: 
    I have enabled the app to type a new input text field to fetch another short-code from the SHRTCODE endpoint even 
     during when the user is waiting for getting previous shortcoder url ( In other words, the user can type again a new url while the Fetching Data animation is still running).
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  
## Unit Testing & UI Testing
- shortly_app_swiftui_fmlzpwTests.swift: Unit Testing
- shortly_app_swiftui_fmlzpwUITests: UI Testing
  
  For Automatic UI Testing, compiler flag `XCT_UITEST` should be turned on, otherwise it does NOT work.
  (and you should uncomment the block marked XCT_UITEST on `ContentView` as well: strangely #define emulation does not work properly on Xcode 13 Beta 5.
  It maybe a bug due to being a beta version.)
  
  The example of marking in the sources.
                  // MARK: XCT_UITEST "textField url_string"
  
  : currently XCT_UITEST is turned off.
  
  And due to 18 sec of running to fetch the JSON data from SHRTCODE endpoint, manual UI Testing is prefered here.
  
  These @State and modifier .accessibility(identifier: "textField url_string") may cause slow down the app that
  I commented out all of them. (Because I had UI-tested already.)
  
  ### A glitch from Xcode12 is that unit testing is still working but UI testing gives off a weird result.
  However, all testings were done chronologically that while I was working on this project step by step on Xcode 13 beta 5,
    there was no glitch.  And I also manually tested unit-testing and ui-testing as well on both the real devices and virtual devices.
    
  
  
## Thread Sanitizer
In this project, it does NOT need to include this, but I added it to test for the thread-safe.
And when I figured out that it is from another reason, I disregarded it.

I usually add TS to the project only when I use Combine and Dispatch extensively.
But this project contains scarcely Dispatch. So, it is not necessary. 
  
  
## Further improvements conceived in the design but not being attempted: 
  
  1. I found some performance issue on `LowerCellInputView` but I just postponed it: I got a 2nd jab of Corona vaccine these days. I feel so tired.
  However, the performance of the current version is relatively good.  I tried to improve readibility which I may postpone.
  
  2. Additional error code handling and improve the performance URLSession and SwiftUI elements:
    I programmed the fundamentals in `Enum_SHRTCODE_ErrorCode`, `errorReasonREST`, `Enum_HttpStatusCode` but not utilized them all.
    Because both that SHRTCODE doesn't follow REST dissertation standard and that I don't want to add arbitrarily again add new SwiftUI element to display all 10 error codes from SHRTCODE.  Partly because I internally check the validity of the URL by validateUrl() of String extension. 
  
    - What you will see by this improvement:
      Alert (deprecated in SwiftUI3.0) or view modifier .alert can show the message when the url entered by the user violate the policy of SHRTCODE.
      or see animating SwiftUI element poping up to notify when the situation of SHRTCODE server is down or the url entered by the user violate the policy of SHRTCODE.  
  
  
## iOS devices and virtual devices/tools - unit-test, UI-test, performance test, profiling, thread sanitizing.
  - iPhone 12, 12 Pro Max -> Simulator
  - iPhoneSE2, iPhone6S plus -> real devices
  - iPad Pro 11.5'
  - Instruments ->Network
                ->Logging
                ->SwiftUI
  - Xcode -> Thread Sanitizer, Main Thread Checker.
                


## please note the folder `Network glitch, ownership problem, etc` for the trouble I've faced

## The simulator may give off some glitch on Xcode12.  Please test this project on real devices if possible.

Commit message:

I updated ReadMe and refactored the string to url_string_private_for_this_URLSession
Former-commit-id: 92e0637d8aa485161bf929d7d9f1090a132fb934

README.md, after:

#  ReadMe for the Code Challenge

        Written Sep 09, 2021 by Sungwook Kim.





## I typed all the followings in chronological order, not considering the integrity of ReadMe file.


## The `DEMO` movie file was included: 
  the file name: `shortly demo by sungwook.mov`
  I forgot to demonstrate when the user enters the same url again.
  for example, the user entered "sungw.net"  and then the app got a short code for it.
  when the user enters again "sungw.net"  and then it won't access the SHRTCODE end point but
    give off an error message on the overlay of text field "It is a duplicate".


## My Environment Xcode 13 beta 5 (Not Xcode 12): SwiftUI3 capable.
I'm using **Swift3**, the latest one which is included only in **Xcode 13 Beta 5**.
in order to maximize the ability I have been using Xcode 13 beta 5 (SwiftUI3)
However, for the compatibility I had to lower the version to Xcode 12 (SwiftUI2) where many feature are deprecated already.

The problem is that On Xcode 12 Info.plist is continually giving me a strange error that is not acutally error:
  It compiles well and test well, but gives a false error.
However, On Xcode 13, I have no such issue: I have no choice because I should stick to Xcode 12 to make my project accessible by the company.

## Some functions and features will be different from the stable version Xcode 12 as the followings:
  - all the asynchronous async, await feature of SwiftUI3 is not available (I'll try not to use this, even if I knew these things well.)
  - popular functions like `func overlay<Overlay>(_ overlay: Overlay, alignment: Alignment = .center) -> some View where Overlay : View` is replaced by 
     func overlay<V>(alignment: Alignment = .center, content: () -> V) -> some View where V : View in SwiftUI3.0 (Xcode13 beta)
  - I am tempted or accustomed to use asynchronous task(priority:_:) modifier than on the synchronous onAppear(perform:), but I try not to: for the compatibility to **Xcode 12** 
    which is limited to **Swift2.0**.

Therefore, sometimes unknowingly, I may use the **SwiftUI3** functions and modifiers: if this happens, the project even in the format of Xcode 12 won't be compiled but **Xcode 13 beta 5**. However, I will try to uae the deprecated function if possible.  If that happens unknowingly, please download **Xcode 13 beta 5** from developer.apple.com and then compile the project, instead.

Because I'm downgrade the project to Xcode12 project format, there are some bugs involved in Info.plist but it is a glitch. It will compile and run without problem. Xcode 12 compiler may keep giving you an error message for the missing Info.plist but it is an expected bug in Xcode 12.
If you created the project on Xcode 13, it won't happen.  However, in order to maintain compatibility with Xcode 12, I intentionally created the project in Xcode 12 format.  (Xcode 13, Info.plist disappear and are consolidated to project settings.) 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## `Additional Features` that were NOT included in the code challenge and that were added:
## or Over-Engineered Parts:

  - url validation: func validateUrl() of String extension does this.
  
      - The Error Handling version 1 (tag: The_Error_Handling_Version_1) when I didn't notice the picture `1.2_main_screen_empty_missing_link.png`.
      Because it wasn't a part of the code challenge, I'll add it with Alert view when it could not validate. 
      And please note that **[Alert](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swiftui/alert)** is deprecated again in **SwiftUI3 (Xcode13)**, being replaced by the modifier  **alert(_:isPresented:presenting:actions:message:)**.
      As I had misunderstood the way of presenting the error message, I interpreted wrongly it to be an Alert view.
      (version 1 can be viewable when you roll back through git history by checking out.)
      
      - The Error Handling version 2 (tag: The_Error_Handling_Version_2__ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier )
      According to the picture '1.2_main_screen_empty_missing_link.png', I converted the corresponding view of the Lower Cell of ContentView by `ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier`.
      
      - `InputFieldError_Enum`, `func isValidString()` of `ContentView`, and  `ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier` deals with error handling of the input text on the text field:
        The reason I added feature is saving from unnecessary calling to the endpoint of SHRTCODE.
        
        For example, let say the user enter the input text "my-website/com" or "my-website_com" which are not valid url.
        instead of waiting for the result, this error handling immediately returns an error "Please enter a correct URL" on the text field without delay.
        This will surely  improve the user experience that I had to add this feature, even if there is no specification about this in the code challenge.
        
      - `ConditionalTextFieldOverlayModifier`: This is designed for displaying the error message over the text field. ( the input text field )
         and its feature is also combined with the source of truth and animation.   
  
      ### `InputFieldError_Enum` related to the above:
        1. case `.emptyString`: when the user hit the `shorten it button` without giving the text field any text. -> returns "Please add a link here" message on the overlay of text field
        2. case `invalidUrl`: when the user entered an invalid string. -> returns "Please enter a correct URL" message on the overlay of text field
        3. case `.duplicated`: when the user entered the same string again -> returns "It is a duplicate" message on the overlay of text field 

  
  - Orientation is fixed at Portrate mode.
  
  - I tried to add dark mode to the app but based on the specifications, there is no room to do that: therefore, I cancelled the previous plan.
      
  - `TheGlobalUIParameter.is_debugging_mode` controls whether it is in debugging mode or not: currently it is limited to FontTestView.
    because the project is relatively simple.
  
  - Avoided the duplicates in the text field input:
    Entering the same `url-string` will be discarded, not being added as a row but showing its error message on the TextEdit Field again as the same way as others. 
  
  - Added 'Fetching Data' animation while waiting for getting the short code from SHRTCODE.
    it takes 18 seconds from S. Korea to SHRTCODE germany that I found from os logging performance testing.
    see the file `OS.log Test - URLSession 18 seconds.png` and `HTTP Traffic not enabled for iPhoneSE2.png`
    I could not test HTTP traffic through Instruments because my iOS devices are limited: iPhoneSE2, not iPhone12 or 11.
    
    Initially, I had been mulling over if I make multiple URLSessions to speed up the connections to the SHRTCODE endpoint. (See the Further Improvements conceived below for more.)
  
  - And when the shortcode is copied to clipboard, there is `a short 1_000ms animation` (`yellow color on the black button`) that notify the user to confirm that it is being processed as well.  `message_animation_duration of TheGlobalUIParameter`
      Because sometimes, the user may want to copy the short code again from the black button which was already copied.
      This is why I thought that such an animation (yellow text popping up) is necessary. 
  
  
  - `hasNotch` property, the view modifier `AdaptivePaddingOverAllDevices`, the view `SpacerOnlyForOnlyDevicesWithoutANotch_Previews`:
    - `hasNotch` property, the view modifier `AdaptivePaddingOverAllDevices`, and `SpacerOnlyForOnlyDevicesWithoutANotch_Previews` were
      introduced to adapt the UI interfaces and elements over various iOS devices, either having a notch or without a notch.
      
      What I found from testings was as the followings:
        - iOS devices that have a notch have safeAreaInsets.bottom != 0,
        -  but iOS devices without a notch have safeAreaInsets.bottom == 0,
        On top of this, `safeAreaInsets.top behavior` or `status bar behavior` is different for iOS devices without a notch from
        those devices with a notch
        Therefore, the behavior of each UI element and animation to it will be affected accordingly.
        
        I used the full screen for the specifications of this code challenge but keyboard safe area is not controllable on SwiftUI2.0 that
        you should see an animation occurring every time the user strokes the virtual keyboard of the iOS device. However, 
        from SwiftUI3.0 this handling of the safe area was improved. Therefore, I couldn't put the feature into the project limited to SwiftUI2.0. 
        
      And from SwiftUI3.0 safeAreaInsets are more featured that we can handle this matter better.
      But as I noticed before, I sticked to SwiftUI 2.0 (Xcode 12 project setting) to make the project compatible to the current version of Xcode 
      and also viewable by the recruiter.     
      
  - Some features are designed only for testings - stability, performance, visibility like `isTesting_CustomFont`
  
  - All control parameters are consolidated in `struct TheGlobalUIParameter`.
     
  - os framework was imported and tested in logging for tracking the performance in remote web access and the corresponding sources of truth.
  
  - many debugging features like `sneakPeak_JSONObject()`
  
  - App Icon was added.
  
  - **The new feature of multiple input field attempts** while waiting for getting previous short-code from the remote endpoint: 
    I have enabled the app to type a new input text field to fetch another short-code from the SHRTCODE endpoint even 
     during when the user is waiting for getting previous shortcoder url ( In other words, the user can type again a new url while the Fetching Data animation is still running).
     This could be done by introducing simplying a private property to each URLSession that is called `url_string_private_for_this_URLSession`.
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  
## Unit Testing & UI Testing
- shortly_app_swiftui_fmlzpwTests.swift: Unit Testing
- shortly_app_swiftui_fmlzpwUITests: UI Testing
  
  For Automatic UI Testing, compiler flag `XCT_UITEST` should be turned on, otherwise it does NOT work.
  (and you should uncomment the block marked XCT_UITEST on `ContentView` as well: strangely #define emulation does not work properly on Xcode 13 Beta 5.
  It maybe a bug due to being a beta version.)
  
  The example of marking in the sources.
                  // MARK: XCT_UITEST "textField url_string"
  
  : currently XCT_UITEST is turned off.
  
  And due to 18 sec of running to fetch the JSON data from SHRTCODE endpoint, manual UI Testing is prefered here.
  
  These @State and modifier .accessibility(identifier: "textField url_string") may cause slow down the app that
  I commented out all of them. (Because I had UI-tested already.)
  
  ### A glitch from Xcode12 is that unit testing is still working but UI testing gives off a weird result.
  However, all testings were done chronologically that while I was working on this project step by step on Xcode 13 beta 5,
    there was no glitch.  And I also manually tested unit-testing and ui-testing as well on both the real devices and virtual devices.
    
  
  
## Thread Sanitizer
In this project, it does NOT need to include this, but I added it to test for the thread-safe.
And when I figured out that it is from another reason, I disregarded it.

I usually add TS to the project only when I use Combine and Dispatch extensively.
But this project contains scarcely Dispatch. So, it is not necessary. 
  
  
## Further improvements conceived in the design but not being attempted: 
  
  1. I found some performance issue on `LowerCellInputView` but I just postponed it: I got a 2nd jab of Corona vaccine these days. I feel so tired.
  However, the performance of the current version is relatively good.  I tried to improve readibility which I may postpone.
  
  2. Additional error code handling and improve the performance URLSession and SwiftUI elements:
    I programmed the fundamentals in `Enum_SHRTCODE_ErrorCode`, `errorReasonREST`, `Enum_HttpStatusCode` but not utilized them all.
    Because both that SHRTCODE doesn't follow REST dissertation standard and that I don't want to add arbitrarily again add new SwiftUI element to display all 10 error codes from SHRTCODE.  Partly because I internally check the validity of the URL by validateUrl() of String extension. 
  
    - What you will see by this improvement:
      Alert (deprecated in SwiftUI3.0) or view modifier .alert can show the message when the url entered by the user violate the policy of SHRTCODE.
      or see animating SwiftUI element poping up to notify when the situation of SHRTCODE server is down or the url entered by the user violate the policy of SHRTCODE.  
  
  
## iOS devices and virtual devices/tools - unit-test, UI-test, performance test, profiling, thread sanitizing.
  - iPhone 12, 12 Pro Max -> Simulator
  - iPhoneSE2, iPhone6S plus -> real devices
  - iPad Pro 11.5'
  - Instruments ->Network
                ->Logging
                ->SwiftUI
  - Xcode -> Thread Sanitizer, Main Thread Checker.
                


## please note the folder `Network glitch, ownership problem, etc` for the trouble I've faced

## The simulator may give off some glitch on Xcode12.  Please test this project on real devices if possible.
